---
published: true
title: Types Of Contract Electronic Manufacturing Services EMS Providers
layout: post
---
The process of designing products in the form of machines, devices or any other form of product that will eventually find their way to the market to be used by the end consumers is known as product development of industrial design process. Contract electronic manufacturing services EMS are provided by companies that have the capability to test, manufacture, distribute, and repair and assembly for electronic devices, machines and products in general. These contract electronic manufacturing services EMS which is essentially electrical/circuit design and manufacturing and rf/wireless design services providers are much sought after due to one significant reason which is that these contract EMS provides can be contracted at any given point during the manufacturing or designing process of a product. Some of these electronic manufacturing services providers need only the basic designs from a client or customer from which they can create an entire device and can usually source electronic and electrical components from other distributors, assemble them and they put the finished product through rigorous testing. A large firm such as Apple Inc. does not need to source all of its components from other providers for they have enough in-house capabilities to create the parts they need to assemble to create a device.

On the other hand, an EMS provider that holds significant expertise in electrical/circuit design and manufacturing may be contracted to perform specific tasks such as creating and implementing the rf/wireless design of a device. Engineering manufacturing services providers differ according to their own expertise meaning that while one EMS provider might be capable of creating and entire device from scratch with in-house manufactured components and very little outsourced material, another EMS provider might hold the expertise of simply assembling the device and many require the customer to provide the initial design, the necessary component and in some cases even a fully assembled and useable sample of the product. These types of EMS providers are usually contracted to meet the needs of mass production.

For more info visit: Electronic Product Design, Development & Manufacturing Services

Posted by Whizz Systems